In Go, comparable types are types that support comparison operations, such as equality (==) and inequality (!=). Comparable types can be used as keys in maps.

## Types that can be used as keys in a map:
All Basic Types: This includes integers (int, int8, int16, int32, int64, uint, uint8, uint16, uint32, uint64), floating-point numbers (float32, float64), complex numbers (complex64, complex128), and booleans (bool).

Strings: Strings can be used as keys because they are comparable.

Pointers: Pointers to comparable types can be used as keys.

Arrays: Arrays with comparable element types can be used as keys. For example, [3]int, [2]string.

Structs: Structs can be used as keys if all their fields are comparable types.

Interfaces: Interfaces with comparable dynamic types can be used as keys.

## Types that cannot be used as keys in a map:
Slices: Slices cannot be used as keys because they are not comparable.

Maps: Maps cannot be used as keys because they are not comparable.

Functions: Functions cannot be used as keys because they are not comparable.

Complex Types: Structs with fields that are maps, slices, or functions cannot be used as keys unless the struct is empty.

Channels: Channels cannot be used as keys because they are not comparable.

Interfaces with Non-Comparable Types: Interfaces with dynamic types that are not comparable cannot be used as keys.

## arrays are comparable types but slices are not why ?

In Go, arrays have a fixed size and a specific element type. Because of this, the compiler can directly compare the elements of two arrays to determine if they are equal or not. This property makes arrays comparable.

On the other hand, slices are more complex data structures compared to arrays. Slices are built on top of arrays and include additional metadata such as a length and a capacity. Slices are essentially references to a contiguous segment of an underlying array.

Since slices are references to underlying arrays, comparing two slices directly with the == operator would compare the references, not the contents of the slices. Two slices may have the same elements but refer to different underlying arrays, so comparing them with the == operator would yield false even if their elements are equal.

For example:

```go
slice1 := []int{1, 2, 3}
slice2 := []int{1, 2, 3}
fmt.Println(slice1 == slice2) // This would print false
```
## using reflect.DeepEqual we can use to compare the non comparable types 
```go
import "reflect"

slice1 := []int{1, 2, 3}
slice2 := []int{1, 2, 3}

if reflect.DeepEqual(slice1, slice2) {
    fmt.Println("The slices are equal.")
} else {
    fmt.Println("The slices are not equal.")
}
```




