## Bufio Vs ioutil packages in Go

bufio and ioutil are two packages in Go that serve different purposes, but they both involve handling input and output operations. Let's look at each of them:

### bufio:
bufio provides buffered I/O operations. It wraps an existing io.Reader or io.Writer and provides buffering for more efficient reading and writing. The package includes types like Scanner and Writer to simplify buffered I/O.

#### Use Cases:

- Reading lines from a file efficiently using Scanner.
- Reading chunks of data from an input stream into a buffer.
- Writing chunks of data to an output stream efficiently.

```go
package main

import (
    "bufio"
    "fmt"
    "os"
)

func main() {
    file, err := os.Open("example.txt")
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return
    }
    defer file.Close()

    scanner := bufio.NewScanner(file)
    for scanner.Scan() {
        fmt.Println(scanner.Text())
    }
}
```
### ioutil:
ioutil is a utility package that provides some I/O utility functions. It simplifies common I/O operations, such as reading an entire file into memory or writing a byte slice to a file.

#### Use Cases:

- Reading the entire content of a file into memory using ReadFile.
- Writing a byte slice to a file using WriteFile.
- Temporary file creation and manipulation.

Example (Reading Entire File):

```golang
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    "io/ioutil"
)

func main() {
    content, err := ioutil.ReadFile("example.txt")
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return
    }
    fmt.Println(string(content))
}
```
### Choosing Between bufio and ioutil:
Use bufio when you want to perform buffered I/O operations, especially when dealing with large amounts of data, streaming, or reading line by line.

Use ioutil when you need simple utility functions for reading or writing entire files at once. It's handy for scenarios where you want a quick way to read or write the entire content of a file.
