## Build, publish, and use a custom Go library

### Package:
- A package in Go is a way to organize and group related Go source code files together. It provides a mechanism for code reuse and modularity.
Each Go source file belongs to a package, and a package is defined by the package declaration at the beginning of the file.

- The package name is crucial for the way Go organizes and manages code. There are two types of packages: executable and reusable libraries.

           - Executable Packages: These are packages that contain the main function and are meant to be compiled into executable programs.
           - Reusable Libraries: These are packages that are meant to be imported and used by other packages.
             They often provide functions, types, and variables that other packages can leverage.

### Library:
In a broader sense, a library is a collection of precompiled routines, functions, and data that can be used by other programs. In the context of Go, a library often refers to a collection of packages that provide reusable functionality.
**A Go library can include multiple packages, each contributing to a specific aspect of the library's functionality.**
Libraries in Go are typically distributed and versioned using the Go Modules system, which is managed through the go.mod file.

## Example of package and library 

Package: https://github.com/MeSabya/mathoperations

Usage of the above package: https://github.com/MeSabya/mathopsusage

In the example provided with the mathoperations and mathopsusage, it's common to have both the mathoperations package and the mathopsusage project in separate repositories on GitHub. 
Each repository can have its own version control history and can be developed, versioned, and published independently (i:e go mod).

How to run the mathopsusage:

go get github.com/yourusername/mathoperations@latest

go run main.go
