## What are goroutines?

The parts of an application that run concurrently are called goroutines in Go, they are in effect concurrently executing computations. 
There is no one-to-one correspondence between a goroutine and an operating system thread: a goroutine is mapped onto (multiplexed, executed by) one or more threads, according to their availability. The goroutine-scheduler accomplishes this in the Go runtime.

- Goroutines run in the same address space. Therefore, access to shared memory must be synchronized.
- This could be done via the sync package, but this is highly discouraged. Instead, Go uses channels to synchronize goroutines.
- Goroutines time-slice on OS threads so any number of goroutines can be serviced by a smaller number of OS threads. 

When a system call blocks a goroutine (e.g., waiting for I/O), other goroutines continue to run on other threads. The design of goroutines hides many of the complexities of thread creation and management. Goroutines are lightweight, much lighter than a thread. They have a minimal footprint, using little memory and resources: they are created with a 2 KB memory stack-space on the heap. Because they are cheap to create, a great number of them can be started on the fly if necessary (in the order of hundreds of thousands in the same address space).

- The stack of a goroutine grows and shrinks as needed. There is no possibility for stack overflow, and the programmer needn’t be concerned about stack size.
- When the goroutine finishes, it exits silently, which means nothing is returned to the function that started it.
- The main() function, which every Go program must have, can also be seen as a goroutine, although it is not started with go. Goroutines may be run during program initialization (in the init() function).
- An executing goroutine can stop itself by calling runtime.Goexit(), although that’s rarely necessary.


