## Implementing Goroutines

Go does not parallelize code by default. Only a single core or processor is dedicated to a Go-program, regardless of how many goroutines are started in it.
Therefore, these goroutines are _running concurrently; they are not running in parallel, which means only one goroutine is running at a time. 
This will probably change, but until then, in order to let your program execute simultaneously with more cores so that goroutines are really running in parallel; 
you have to use the variable GOMAXPROCS. 
This tells the run-time how many goroutines can execute in parallel. For example, if you have 8 processors, you can at most run 8 goroutines in parallel.

### Example1
```golang
// Go program to illustrate
// the concept of Goroutine
package main

import "fmt"

func display(str string) {
	for w := 0; w < 6; w++ {
		fmt.Println(str)
	}
}

func main() {

	// Calling Goroutine
	go display("Welcome")

	// Calling normal function
	display("GeeksforGeeks")
}
```

#### Output

```
GeeksforGeeks
GeeksforGeeks
GeeksforGeeks
GeeksforGeeks
GeeksforGeeks
GeeksforGeeks
```

we simply create a display() function and then call this function in two different ways first one is a Goroutine, i.e. go display(“Welcome”) and another one is a normal function, i.e. display(“GeeksforGeeks”). But there is a problem, it only displays the result of the normal function that does not display the result of Goroutine because when a new Goroutine executed, the Goroutine call return immediately. The control does not wait for Goroutine to complete their execution just like normal function they always move forward to the next line after the Goroutine call and ignores the value returned by the Goroutine.

## The main() waiting for the goroutines to finish

```golang
package main
import (
  "fmt"
  "sync"
)

func HeavyFunction1(wg *sync.WaitGroup) {
  defer wg.Done()
  // Do a lot of stuff
}

func HeavyFunction2(wg *sync.WaitGroup) {
  defer wg.Done()
  // Do a lot of stuff
}

func main() {
  wg := new(sync.WaitGroup)
  wg.Add(2)
  go HeavyFunction1(wg)
  go HeavyFunction2(wg)
  wg.Wait()
  fmt.Printf("All Finished!")
}
```



