## Channels 

👉 A channel is, in fact, a typed message queue: data can be transmitted through it. 
   It is a First In First Out (FIFO) structure, 
   and so it **preserves** the order of the items that are sent into it (for those who are familiar with it, a channel can be compared to a two-way pipe in Unix shells).

👉 The value of an uninitialized channel is nil.

👉 Data is passed around on channels: only one goroutine has access to a data item at any given time: so data races cannot occur, by design.
   The ownership of the data (that is the ability to read and write it) is passed around. A useful analogy is to compare a channel with a conveyor belt in a factory. 
   One machine (the producer goroutine) puts items onto the belt, and another machine (the consumer goroutine) takes them off for packaging.

👉 A channel is also a reference type, so we have to use the make() function to allocate memory for it. Here is a declaration of a channel ch1 of strings, followed by its creation (instantiation):

```golang
var ch1 chan string
ch1 = make(chan string)
```

But of course, this can be shortened to:

```
ch1 := make(chan string)
```

### Communication operator

```golang
package main
import (
  "fmt"
  "time"
)

func main() {
  ch := make(chan string)
  go sendData(ch) // calling goroutine to send the data
  go getData(ch)  // calling goroutine to receive the data
  time.Sleep(1e9)  
}

func sendData(ch chan string) { // sending data to ch channel
  ch <- "Washington"
  ch <- "Tripoli"
  ch <- "London"
  ch <- "Beijing"
  ch <- "Tokyo"
}

func getData(ch chan string) {
  var input string
  for {
    input = <-ch // receiving data sent to ch channel
    fmt.Printf("%s ", input)
  }
  close(ch) // closed the channel
}
```
Here, we see that synchronization between the goroutines becomes important:

- The main() waits for 1 second so that both goroutines can come to completion. If this is not allowed, sendData() doesn’t have the chance to produce its output.
- getData() works with an infinite for-loop. This comes to an end when sendData() has finished, and ch is empty.
- If we remove one or all go keywords, the program doesn’t work anymore, and the Go runtime throws a panic:

---- Error run <path> with code Crashed Fatal error: all goroutines are asleep - deadlock!

## Channel communication is synchronous or async 

By default, communication is synchronous, and unbuffered, which means the send operation does not complete until there is a receiver to accept the value. One can think of an unbuffered channel as if there is no space in the channel for data. There must be a receiver ready to receive data from the channel, and then the sender can hand it over directly to the receiver. So, channel send/receive operations block until the other side is ready:

- A send operation on a channel (and the goroutine or function that contains it) blocks until a receiver is available for the same channel ch.
- A receive operation for a channel blocks (and the goroutine or function that contains it) until a sender is available for the same channel.

### Example1

```golang
package main
import (
  "fmt"
  "time"
)

func main() {
  ch1 := make(chan int)
  go pump(ch1) // pump hangs
  fmt.Println(<-ch1) // prints only 0
  time.Sleep(1e9)
}

func pump(ch chan int) {
  for i:= 0; ; i++ {
  ch <- i
  }
}
```

The pump() function, which supplies the values for the channel, is sometimes called a generator. To unblock the channel, define the function suck, which reads from the channel in an infinite loop. See the following snippet:

```golang
func suck(ch chan int) {
  for {
    fmt.Println(<-ch)
  }
}
```
and start this as a goroutine in main():

```
go pump(ch1)
go suck(ch1)
time.Sleep(1e9)
```

An unbuffered channel can only contain 1 item, and for that reason, it is sometimes too restrictive. We can provide a buffer in the channel, whose capacity gets set in an extended make command, like this:

```
buf := 100
ch1 := make(chan string, buf)
```

The buf is the number of elements (in this example: strings) the channel can hold.

Sending to a buffered channel will not block unless the buffer is full (the capacity is completely used), and reading from a buffered channel will not block unless the buffer is empty.


