Channel Factory and Producer-Consumer Pattern
This lesson provides detailed concepts on the channel factory and producer-consumer pattern.

We'll cover the following

Channel factory pattern
For-range applied to channels
Producer-consumer pattern
Channel factory pattern
Another common pattern in this style of programming is that, instead of passing a channel as a parameter to a goroutine, the function makes the channel and returns it (so it plays the role of a factory). Inside the function, a lambda function is called a goroutine. The following code is an implementation of this pattern:

12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728
package main
import (
  "fmt"
  "time"
)

func main() {
  stream := pump()
  go suck(stream)
  // the above 2 lines can be shortened to: go suck( pump() )


Run

Save

Reset
Channel Factory Pattern
At line 8, the main() goroutine starts the function pump(). As we see from line 14, pump() returns a channel of ints, which is received in the stream variable.

Look at the header of pump() at line 14. It makes a local channel ch at line 15 and then starts a goroutine in an anonymous function at line 16. This function executes an infinite for-loop at line 17, putting successive integers onto the channel. While this has started, ch is returned at line 21, and received in variable stream.

At line 9, a second goroutine is started, executing the suck() function. Look at the header of suck() at line 24. It takes ch as a parameter. This gets a value from the channel and prints it out. At line 11, main() waits 1 second to allow the display of the initial output. Then, the program exits, stopping all goroutines.

For-range applied to channels
The range clause on for loops accepts a channel ch as an operand, in which case the for loops over the values received from the channel, like this:

for v := range ch {
 fmt.Printf("The value is %v\n",v)
}
It reads from the given channel ch until the channel is closed, and then the code following the for continues to execute. Obviously, another goroutine must be writing to ch (otherwise the execution blocks in the for-loop) and must close ch when it is done writing. The function suck() can apply this and also launch this action in a goroutine. Then, the former program becomes:

12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728
package main
import (
  "fmt"
  "time"
)

func main() {
  suck(pump())
  time.Sleep(1e9)
}


Run

Save

Reset
For range on channels
The logic of this program is nearly the same as the previous code. The suck() function calls pump() at line 8. This is possible because suck expects a channel of ints as a parameter, and pump returns a channel of ints. Now, we can make the design much more symmetrical: both pump() and suck() start a goroutine. The pump() (see implementation from line 12 to line 20) is identical to the previous version. Now, the suck() starts an anonymous function in a goroutine. This function iterates over the channel ch (line 24), getting, reading, and printing out each successive value (line 25).

Producer-consumer pattern
Suppose we have a Produce() function, which delivers the values needed by a Consume() function. Both functions could be run as a separate goroutine, Produce putting the values on a channel which is read by Consume. The whole process could take place in an infinite loop:

for {
  Consume(Produce())
}
Now that you’re familiar with the different patterns, the next lesson brings you a challenge to solve.
