A channel type may be annotated to specify that it may only send or only receive data:

var send_only chan<- int // data can only be sent (written) to the channel
var recv_only <-chan int // data can only be received (read) from the channel
Receive-only channels (<-chan T) cannot be closed, because closing a channel is intended as a way for a sender goroutine to signal that no more values will be sent to the channel. Therefore, it has no meaning for receive-only channels. All channels are created bidirectional, but we can assign them to directional channel variables, like in this code snippet:

var c = make(chan int) // bidirectional
go source(c)
go sink(c)
func source(ch chan<- int) {
  for { ch <- 1 } // sending data to ch channel
}
func sink(ch <-chan int) {
  for { <-ch } // receiving data from ch channel
}
Channel iterator pattern
This pattern can be applied in the common case where we have to populate a channel with the items of a container type, which contains index-addressable field items. For this, we can define a method Iter() on the content type which returns receive-only channel items (Iter() is a channel factory), as follows:

func (c *container) Iter () <-chan items {
  ch := make(chan item)

  go func () {
    for i := 0; i < c.Len(); i++ { // or use a for-range loop
      ch <- c.items[i]
    }
  } ()
  return ch
}
Inside the goroutine, a for-loop iterates over the elements in the container c (for tree or graph algorithms, this simple for-loop could be replaced with a depth-first search). The code, which calls this method can then iterate over the container, like:

for x := range container.Iter() { ... }
which can run in its own goroutine. Then, the above iterator employs a channel and two goroutines (which may run in separate threads).

If the program terminates before the goroutine is done writing values to the channel, then that goroutine will not be garbage collected; this is by design. This seems like the wrong behavior, but channels are for thread-safe communication. In that context, a hung goroutine trying to write to a channel that nobody will ever read from is probably a bug and not something you’d like to be silently garbage-collected.

Pipe and filter pattern
A more concrete example would be a goroutine processChannel, which processes what it receives from an input channel and sends this to an output channel:

sendChan := make(chan int)
receiveChan := make(chan string)
go processChannel(sendChan, receiveChan)
func processChannel(in <-chan int, out chan<- string) {
 for inValue := range in {
   result:= ... // processing inValue
   out <- result
 }
}
By using the directionality notation, we make sure that the goroutine will not perform unallowed channel operations.

Here is an excellent and more concrete example taken from the Go Tutorial, which prints the prime numbers at its output, using filters (sieves) as its algorithm. Each prime gets its filter, like in this schema:

The Sieve-Prime Algorithm 

The Sieve-Prime Algorithm
Version I 
12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031
package main
import "fmt"

// Send the sequence 2, 3, 4, ... to channel ch.
func generate(ch chan int) {
  for i := 2; ; i++ {
    ch <- i // Send i to channel ch.
  }
}



Run

Save

Reset
Sieve Algorithm-Version 1
Note: The Execution Timed Out! is the expected behavior, so don’t panic.

Look at the main function at line 25. It starts generate as its own goroutine. It is implemented at the top. Look at its header at line 5. It receives a channel ch and starts sending integers on it in an infinite loop (see line 7). Let’s see the flow of the program in detail:

In main() starts an infinite for-loop (from line 26 to line 32). It takes a value from the channel named prime (see line 27), and prints it at line 28.

A new channel ch1 of integers is made at line 29. The filter function is started at line 30 as its own goroutine, passing the two channels (becoming resp. in and out), and prime as a parameter.

Then, in an infinite for-loop (from line 14 to line 19) in filter function, an integer i is taken from in (ch), only when it is not divisible by the prime (line 16) and is copied to out (ch1).

Then, channel ch is replaced by ch1 at line 31.

Thus, following the schema outlined above, the net result is that only prime numbers remain in ch.

Version II
In the second version, the pipe and filter pattern described above is applied. The functions sieve, generate, and filter are factories. They make a channel and return it, and they use lambda functions as goroutines. The main routine is now very short and clear. It calls sieve(), which returns a channel containing the primes, and then the channel is printed out via fmt.Println(<-primes).

12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031
package main
import "fmt"

// Send the sequence 2, 3, 4, ... to returned channel
func generate() chan int {
  ch := make(chan int)
  go func() {
    for i := 2; ; i++ {
     ch <- i
    }


Run

Save

Reset
Sieve Algorithm-Version 2
Note: The Execution Timed Out! is the expected behavior, so don’t panic.

Here, we refactor the code of version I. The main() calls function sieve() at line 42, which produces the prime numbers as a channel of ints called primes. Then in an infinite for loop (from line 43 to line 45), the values are read from the channel and printed out.

Now, look at the header of sieve() at line 28. It constructs its return channel at line 29 and starts at line 30 a goroutine, which executes an anonymous function. In it, we call the function generate() at line 31. This function is defined (from line 5 to line 13) as in Version I; this puts all integers onto its output channel, which is captured in ch.

Then, in an infinite for loop, we take a value prime from ch, and pass it together with ch to function filter() at line 34. The filter() works like in Version I, making an out channel at line 17, then starting at line 18 a goroutine, which executes an anonymous function. In it, enclosed in an infinite for loop, we take a value from the in channel (which was ch). Only when it is a prime, we pass it to the out channel at line 21, which is returned at line 25.

Now that you’re familiar with channel directionality, the next lesson brings the information to synchronize the channels between goroutines.
