## Switching between goroutines

Waiting between a number of goroutines
Getting the values out of different, concurrently executing goroutines can be accomplished with the select keyword, which closely resembles the switch control statement, and is sometimes called the communications switch. It acts like an are you ready polling mechanism. The select listens for incoming data on channels, but there could also be cases where a value is not sent on a channel:

select {
  case u:= <- ch1:
    ...
  case v:= <- ch2:
    ...
    ...
  default: // no value ready to be received
    ...
}
The default clause is optional. The fall through behavior, like in the normal switch, is not permitted. A select is terminated when a break or return is executed in one of its cases. What select does is, it chooses which of the multiple communications listed by its cases can proceed.

If all are blocked, it waits until one can proceed.
When none of the channel operations can proceed, and the default clause is present, then this is executed because the default is always runnable, or ready to execute.
If multiple can proceed, it chooses one at random.
Using a send operation in a select statement with a default case guarantees that the send will be non-blocking! If there are no cases, the select blocks execution forever.

The select statement implements a kind of listener pattern, and it is mostly used within an (infinite) loop. When a certain condition is reached, the loop is exited via a break statement.

Look at the following program:

12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031
package main
import (
"fmt"
"time"
"runtime"
)

func main() {
    runtime.GOMAXPROCS(2) 
    ch1 := make(chan int)


Run

Save

Reset
Goroutine with Select Statement
In above program, there are two channels ch1 and ch2 (defined at line 10 and line 11) and 3 goroutines pump1() (started at line 12), pump2() (started at line 13) and suck() (started at line 14): a typical producer-consumer pattern.

Now, look at the header of the function pump1() at line 18. In an infinite loop at line 20, ch is filled with integers (i*2). Similarly, look at the header of the function pump2() at line 24. In an infinite loop at line 26, ch is filled with integers (i+5).

The suck() function polls for input also in a non-ending loop (from line 31 to line 38), and takes in the integers from ch1 and ch2 in the select clause (line 32), and outputs them. If the first case : case v:= <- ch1: is true then we get an output from line 35. But, if the second case : case v:= <- ch2: is true then we get an output from line 37.

At line 15, the program is terminated in the main() function after 1 second.

Nulling idiom
A channel that gets the value nil blocks further reading from it. This is applied in the so-called nulling idiom, which can be applied when reading from a number of channels inside a select statement. As soon as all the values in a channel have been read, we set the channel to nil, effectively blocking further reading from it:

This code requires the following environment variables to execute:
GOROOT
/usr/local/go
GOPATH
//root/usr/local/go/src
PATH
//root/usr/local/go/src/bin:/usr/local/go/bin://root/usr/local/go/src/bin:/usr/local/go/bin://root/usr/local/go/src/bin:/usr/local/go/bin://root/usr/local/go/src/bin:/usr/local/go/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin

```main.go
package main
import "fmt"
import "os"
import "strconv"

func iter(b int, c chan int) { 
  for i := 0; i < b; i++ {
    c <- i // put integers from 0 to n-1 on channel c
  }
  close(c) 
}

func main() {
  n, _ := strconv.Atoi(os.Args[1]) // line arg. converted to integer
  a := make(chan int)
  b := make(chan int)
  go iter(n, a)
  go iter(n, b)
  for a != nil || b != nil {
    select {
      case x, ok := <- a: // takes int value from channel a
        if ok {
     go     fmt.Println(x)
        } else { // if channel a is closed
          a = nil
        }
      case y, ok := <- b: // takes int value from channel b
        if ok {
          fmt.Println(y)
        } else { // if channel b is closed
          b = nil
        }
    }
  }
}
```


Note: You can also try any other number as a command-line argument instead of 10 to check the variation.

At line 14, the command-line argument is converted to an integer n, ignoring possible errors. At line 15 and line 16, we make two channels a and b, respectively. Then, at line 17, we start a goroutine with the iter() function, passing n and channel a. Similarly, at line 18, we start a goroutine with the iter() function, passing n, and channel b.

The iter() function is defined from line 6 to line 11. It puts integers from 0 to n-1 on its channel and then closes it.

Back in main(), a for-loop is started at line 19, which continues as long as one of the two channels has a value different from nil. The select at line 20 chooses between two cases:

x, ok := <- a:: takes an integer value x from channel a. If it’s true, then x will be printed.
y, ok := <- b:: takes an integer value y from channel b. If it’s true, then y will be printed.
If reading of the channel fails because it is closed, ok will be false, and the channel will get the value nil. When both channels are closed, they become nil, and the for-loop stops.

Server backend pattern
Often a server is implemented as a background goroutine which loops forever and processes values of channels via a select from within that loop:

// Backend goroutine.
func backend() {
  for {
    select {
      case cmd := <-ch1:
        // Handle ...
      case cmd := <-ch2:
        ...
      case cmd := <-chStop:
        // stop server
    }
  }
}
Other parts of the application send values on the channels ch1, ch2, and so on. A stop channel is used for a clean termination of the server process. Another possible (but less flexible) pattern is that all clients post their request on a chRequest, and the backend routine loops over this channel, processing requests according to their nature in a switch:

func backend() {
  for req := range chRequest {
    switch req.Subject() {
      case A1: // Handle case ...
      case A2: // Handle case ...
      default:
        // Handle illegal request ...
        // ...
    }
  }
}
Now that you’re familiar with organizing channel reception via the select construct, the next lesson brings you a challenge to solve.
