A typical client-server pattern
Client-server applications are the kind of applications where goroutines and channels shine. A client can be any running program on any device that needs something from a server, so it sends a request. The server receives this request, does some work, and then sends a response back to the client. In a typical situation, there are many clients (so many requests) and one (or a few) server(s). An example we use all the time is the client browser, which requests a web page. A web server responds by sending the web page back to the browser.

In Go, a server will typically perform a response to a client in a goroutine, so a goroutine is launched for every client-request. A technique commonly used is that the client-request itself contains a channel, which the server uses to send in its response.

For example, the request is a struct like the following which embeds a reply channel:

type Request struct {
  a, b int;
  replyc chan int; // reply channel inside the Request
}
Or more generally:

type Reply struct { ... }
type Request struct {
  arg1, arg2, arg3 some_type
  replyc chan *Reply
}
Continuing with the simple form, the server could launch for each request a function run() in a goroutine that will apply an operation op of type binOp to the ints and then send the result on the reply channel:

type binOp func(a, b int) int

func run(op binOp, req *Request) {
  req.replyc <- op(req.a, req.b)
}
The server routine loops forever, receiving requests from a chan *Request and, to avoid blocking due to a long-running operation, it starts a goroutine for each request to do the actual work.

func server(op binOp, service chan *Request) {
  for {
    req := <-service; // requests arrive here
    // start goroutine for request:
    go run(op, req); // don't wait for op to complete
  }
}
The server is started in its own goroutine by the function startServer:

func startServer(op binOp) chan *Request {
  reqChan := make(chan *Request);
  go server(op, reqChan);
  return reqChan;
}
Here, startServer will be invoked in the main routine.

In the following test-example, 100 requests are posted to the server, only after they all have been sent do we check the responses in reverse order:

func main() {
  adder := startServer(func(a, b int) int { return a + b })
  const N = 100
  var reqs [N]Request
  for i := 0; i < N; i++ {
    req := &reqs[i]
    req.a = i
    req.b = i + N
    req.replyc = make(chan int)
    adder <- req // adder is a channel of requests
  }
  // checks:
  for i := N - 1; i >= 0; i-- { // doesn't matter what order
    if <-reqs[i].replyc != N+2*i {
      fmt.Println("fail at", i)
    } else {
      fmt.Println("Request ", i, " is ok!")
    }

  }
  fmt.Println("done")
}

```golang
package main
import "fmt"

type Request struct {
  a, b int
  replyc chan int // reply channel inside the Request
}

type binOp func(a, b int) int
func run(op binOp, req *Request) {
  req.replyc <- op(req.a, req.b)
}

func server(op binOp, service chan *Request) {
  for {
    req := <-service // requests arrive here

    // start goroutine for request:
    go run(op, req) // don't wait for op
  }
}

func startServer(op binOp) chan *Request {
  reqChan := make(chan *Request)
  go server(op, reqChan)
  return reqChan
}

func main() {
  adder := startServer(func(a, b int) int { return a + b })
  const N = 100
  var reqs [N]Request
  for i := 0; i < N; i++ {
    req := &reqs[i]
    req.a = i
    req.b = i + N
    req.replyc = make(chan int)
    adder <- req
  }
  // checks:
  for i := N - 1; i >= 0; i-- { // doesn't matter what order
    if <-reqs[i].replyc != N+2*i {
      fmt.Println("fail at", i)
    } else {
      fmt.Println("Request ", i, " is ok!")
    }
  }
  fmt.Println("done")
}
```
This program has been completely described in the introduction above. It has the following basic parts:

We define the Request struct at line 4. It has two integer fields a and b, and a channel of integers named replyc.

We define a function type binOp for any function that takes two integers as input and returns an integer (see line 9).

We define the run() function, which takes an object of type binOp and a pointer to the object of type Request (see its header at line 10). The run() function puts the result of the operation on the reply channel replyc of the request struct req.

We define the server() function, which takes an object of type binOp and a pointer to the channel of type Request (see its header at line 14). The server() function is an infinite for loop that takes a request from the service channel (line 16), and starts a goroutine at line 19 with that request.

At line 30, in main(), the server is started. startServer() (from line 23 to line 27) starts the server in its own goroutine, and returns the request channel. From line 31 to line 39, 100 requests are constructed and sent to the request channel. Finally, from line 41 to line 47, we check the correctness of the result of each request, displaying messages in the ok and error cases.

Teardown: shutting down the server
In the previous version, the server does not perform a clean shutdown when main returns; it is forced to stop. To improve this, we can provide a second, quit channel to the server:

func startServer(op binOp) (service chan *Request, quit chan bool) {
  service = make(chan *Request)
  quit = make(chan bool)
  go server(op, service, quit)
  return service, quit
}
Then, the server function uses a select to choose between the service channel and the quit channel:

func server(op binOp, service chan *request, quit chan bool) {
  for {
    select {
      case req := <-service:
        go run(op, req)
      case <-quit:
        return
    }
  }
}
When a true value enters the quit channel, the server returns and terminates. In main, we change the following line:

adder, quit := startServer(func(a, b int) int { return a + b })
At the end of main, we place the line: quit <- true. The complete code can be found in the following program, with the same output as the above.

```golang
package main
import "fmt"

type Request struct {
  a, b int
  replyc chan int // reply channel inside the Request
}

type binOp func(a, b int) int

func run(op binOp, req *Request) {
  req.replyc <- op(req.a, req.b)
}

func server(op binOp, service chan *Request, quit chan bool) {
  for {
    select {
    case req := <-service:
      go run(op, req)
    case <-quit:
      return
    }
  }
}

func startServer(op binOp) (service chan *Request, quit chan bool) {
  service = make(chan *Request)
  quit = make(chan bool)
  go server(op, service, quit)
  return service, quit
}

func main() {
  adder, quit := startServer(func(a, b int) int { return a + b })
  const N = 100
  var reqs [N]Request
  for i := 0; i < N; i++ {
    req := &reqs[i]
    req.a = i
    req.b = i + N
    req.replyc = make(chan int)
    adder <- req
  }
  // checks:
  for i := N - 1; i >= 0; i-- { // doesn't matter what order
    if <-reqs[i].replyc != N+2*i {
      fmt.Println("fail at", i)
    } else {
      fmt.Println("Request ", i, " is ok!")
    }
  }
  quit <- true
  fmt.Println("done")
}
```

Adding to the explanations of the previous example, the server has a quit channel, defined at line 28, which startServer() returns (see line 26). The server() function itself, now, contains a select clause inside the for (from line 17 to line 22). If there is a request, run it in a separate goroutine (line 19). If a value has been put on the quit channel (line 20), return from the function and stop the program. The value true is put on the quit channel at line 52, so this is an ordered shutdown of our server.







