## Implementation of Interfaces

An interface is a kind of contract, which the implementing type(s) must fulfill. Interfaces describe the behavior of types, specifying what types can do. They completely separate the definition of what an object can do from how it does it, allowing distinct implementations to be represented at different times by the same interface variable, which is what polymorphism essentially is. Writing functions so that they accept an interface variable as a parameter makes them more general.

### Using method sets with interfaces

This is an extension of https://github.com/MeSabya/Golang/blob/main/function/07.%20Receiver%20parameter.md.
There we saw that methods on variables do not distinguish between values or pointers. When storing a value in an interface type, it is slightly more complicated because a concrete value stored in an interface is not addressable. 
Still, luckily the compiler flags an error on improper use. Consider the following program:

```golang
package main
import (
"fmt"
)

type List []int

func (l List) Len() int { return len(l) }

func (l *List) Append(val int) { *l = append(*l, val) }

type Appender interface {
    Append(int)
}

func CountInto(a Appender, start, end int) {
    for i := start; i <= end; i++ {
        a.Append(i)
    }
}

type Lener interface {
    Len() int
}

func LongEnough(l Lener) bool {
    return l.Len()*10 > 42
}

func main() {
    // A bare value
    var lst List
    // compiler error:
    // cannot use lst (type List) as type Appender in function argument:
    // List does not implement Appender (Append method requires pointer receiver)
    // CountInto(lst, 1, 10)
    if LongEnough(lst) { // VALID: Identical receiver type
        fmt.Printf(" - lst is long enough\n")
    }
    // A pointer value
    plst := new(List)
    CountInto(plst, 1, 10) // VALID: Identical receiver type
    if LongEnough(plst) { // VALID: a *List can be dereferenced for the receiver
        fmt.Printf(" - plst is long enough\n") // - plst2 is long enough
    }
}
```

**CountInto called with the value lst gives a compiler error because CountInto takes an Appender, and Append() is only defined for a pointer. 
LongEnough on value lst works because Len() is defined on a value. CountInto called with the pointer plst works because CountInto takes an Appender, 
and Append() is defined for a pointer. LongEnough on pointer plst works because a pointer can be dereferenced for the receiver.**

👉 When you call a method on an interface, it must either have an identical receiver type or it must be directly discernible from the concrete type:

- Pointer methods can be called with pointers.
- Value methods can be called with values.
- Value-receiver methods can be called with pointer values because they can be dereferenced first.
- Pointer-receiver methods cannot be called with values; however, because the value stored inside an interface has no address.

When assigning a value to an interface, the compiler ensures that all possible interface methods can be called on that value, so trying to make an improper assignment will fail on the compilation.

#### Type map[string] interface{} 

